##Project Definition##

###Introduction###

I find that I learn best through application.  In school, I was always good math, largely, I believe, because of the repetition of problems in the homework sets.  I was able to learn about a topic, and then practice how that topic is applied to problems.  This project, I hope, will give me the opportunity to learn about new ideas in web development, and apply them to a problem.

My goal is to get a job as a front-end developer.  The problem is solving how to demonstrate that I will be valuable to an organization.  I will use this project as a way to highlight what I have done in the past, and, possibly more importantly, document how I go about solving a problem.

###Project Goals###

* Get a job as a front-end developer in the Bay Area
* Build a website to highlight my projects and accomplishments
* Learn about new ideas and technologies in web development
* Demonstrate how I can provide value to a new organization

###Project Objectives###

* Update my resume content to show my accomplishments and projects in an interesting format
* Build a website to replace the need for a traditional paginated resume
* Provide an outlet for continued writing and projects
* Demonstrate my understanding of new ideas and technologies in web development
* Document the way I think about solving problems and completing projects

###Victory Conditions###

* Accepted a job offer as a front-end web developer by June 1, 2012
* Zero requests from potential employers for a standard document resume because my site does not communicate the necessary information
* This website is discussed in 100% of my job interviews with potential employers

###Requirements###

* Launch by April 15, 2012 so I may start applying to jobs
* Accept a job offer by June 1, 2012 so I may move to the Bay Area by July 1, 2012
* I will complete the website on my own
* The website will need to be completed during nights and weekends while I continue working in my present position

###Process###

The suggestion to develop a project definition, and what information should be included in the document, came from [*The Elements of Content Strategy* by Erin Kissane](http://www.abookapart.com/products/the-elements-of-content-strategy).  When I first started this project, I wrote a short post about what I wanted to do and how I wanted to do it, much of which was edited into this document.

Erin suggested that the project planning documents should be collected in a central location, which made me realized that a blog post (my first blog post, which would be at the very end if sorted chronologically), probably isn't the best way to document that information.  So I decided to create a better structured way to present the planning information.

