##Style Tiles##

###Design in a Responsive Workflow###

Style Tiles are a way to communicate the visual design of a site without locking into a particular page layout.  As the layout for a responsive website will change as the device width changes, we need a new way to communicate design that is separated from the layout.

A [generic Style Tile template](#) has been developed, which will be used to communicate the desired design of the site.

###Design Themes###

The visual design of the site should complement the site messages:

* Provide value, solve problems, deliver results
* Trust, reliability
* Contribution, ability, action
* Diversity, passion
* Easy to read, distraction free
* Focus on content
* Lighthearted, show personality
* Clear organization

The elements of design can be applied to communicate the desired messages.

* Line
    * Straight and thin lines tend to be more refined and smart
    * Horizontal lines suggest rest, vertical lines suggest grandeur, diagonal lines suggest movement
    * Combining horizontal and vertical lines communicates stability
* Color
    * Brown to suggest stability
    * Light yellow to suggest intellect and freshness
    * Light blue to suggest health and understanding
    * Dark blue to suggest knowledge, trust and integrity
    * White to suggest safety and cleanliness
    * Black to suggest seriousness, power, formality
    * Grey to suggest security and practicality
* Shape
    * Squares communicate security and stability
    * Curving shapes are more feminine
* Space
    * White space can give breathing room for the eyes
    * Less white space can give feelings of claustrophobia
    * Too much white space can signify unfinished work
Texture
    * Textures can bring realism and add visual interest

###Iterating on the Design###

Three style tiles were developed from the generic template and compared for how they communicate the site messages, [style tile 1](#), [style tile 2](#) and [style tile 3](#).  The bright colors and light font weight in the [first style tile](#) makes it feel too playful to communicate value and reliability.  The [second style tile](#) goes too far in the other direction, feeling too formal and almost legal-like.  The [third style tile](#) introduced some of the lighter colors from the first one, but with a heavier paragraph font weight.  Icons were introduced in the third one, which makes it look more interesting.  But the header font weights look overwhelming.

I switched the header fonts from the second style tile with those in the third tile and I'm pretty happy with [style tile 4](#).

###References###

I first heard about using Style Tiles from [Samantha Warren](http://badassideas.com/about/).  She has a great explanation of the process in her blog post [Style Tiles as a Web Design Process Tool](http://badassideas.com/style-tiles-as-a-web-design-process-tool), and built a [site](http://styletil.es/) explaining the process.

I learned a bit about design from [Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in Action](http://www.color-wheel-pro.com/color-meaning.html), [What to know how to design? Learn The Basics.](http://justcreative.com/2008/06/13/how-to-design-learn-the-basics/) and [Principles of Design](http://char.txa.cornell.edu/language/principl/principl.htm).
